Tagging 809 dollardollar version (#1696)
latex3/latex2e: base/doc/ltnews41.tex

(attach MathML associated file) or \texttt{tex-AF} (attach the TeX
source).

\subsection{The use of \texttt{\$\$...\$\$} for math displays}

In \LaTeX{} using the plain \TeX{} method \verb=$$...$$= to mark up a
math display is not officially supported because it produces a fixed
visual result that it not receptive to style changes such as the
\texttt{fleqn} option. Instead, the recommended way is to use
\verb=\[ ... \]= or the \env{displaymath} environment. However, many
users used this input method in their documents, so we do our best to
support it when accessible PDFs are to be produced, but one should be
aware that it has some limitations.

In contrast, using \verb=$$= in environment definitions for special
math environments (like those defined in \pkg{amsmath}) makes it
impossible to use such environments in documents that are

> tagged. Instead, such definitions should make use of the kernel commands

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tagged. Instead,  these definitions should make use of the kernel commands
```

such isn't wrong but a little uncommon, and it's already used the line above

\cs{dollardollar@begin} and \cs{dollardollar@end} to specify where the

> math display starts and ends. This iss an essential requirement to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
math display starts and ends. This is an essential requirement to
```

> make a package or a class compatible with tagging and allowing it to

Author: I really don't understand your definition of a "a lot". Across of al TeX Live there are less than 100 packages and styles  that contain any use of `$$`and out of those several are false positives. To me that is not a lot at all and there is little indication that we will see more packages or stlyes that would need to use the two commands.

The ltnews entry is not there because a huge number of people would need to make adjustments , it is there to have a record of change in case in the place where we record additions and changes.

> make a package or a class compatible with tagging and allowing it to

Reviewer 2: Well, it is all relative I guess. 
The numbers are not important, but the distinction between the kernel,and any number of packages may be.
But nothing here worth arguing about (noting that 200 is a lot more than 5:-).

> make a package or a class compatible with tagging and allowing it to

Reviewer 2: I had not understood that ltnews is now being used as a full and rigorous document of record.

Probably not a sensible use for a news article?

But it would mean that the entries need to be tightened up a lot, with more details and probably references.

> make a package or a class compatible with tagging and allowing it to

Author: I wouldn't call t a rigerous document of record but `texdoc ltnews` is giving you a good starting point if you want to learn about changes important to users and developers, eg when was something introduced or changed, for the exact details (relevant to a programmer) still have to look into the code documentation but to just find out there have been changes on this or that it serves very well as it is giving enough for an overview.

be used when producing accessible documents.

> Package and class developer can very easily prepare their code in this

Author: it would not, why? Besides, I'm still waiting for any suggestion as to what a good sset of shorter names would be.

> Package and class developer can very easily prepare their code in this

Reviewer: @car222222 the name is no longer than for example `\NewDocumentCommand` which might get used more in a single document than the expected use of these commands across the whole of ctan, so I don't think the length is an issue really.

> Package and class developer can very easily prepare their code in this

Reviewer 2: I never claimed that they are absolutely too long, only that (as observed by others) they could easily be somewhat shorter.

> Package and class developer can very easily prepare their code in this

Reviewer 2: @FrankMittelbach is really wanting suggestions for shorter names! ??

> Package and class developer can very easily prepare their code in this

Author: I can't remember others oberserving anything around those names other than David who then retracted and thought they serve well.

respect by using
\begin{verbatim}
\providecommand\dollardollar@begin{$$}
\providecommand\dollardollar@end{$$}
\end{verbatim}
and replace every usage of \verb=$$= with the appropriate start and

> end command. By adding the \cs{providecommand} lines in the package or

Reviewer 2: So the last sentence here should be something like this:

The addition of these to classes and packages also covers the use with older versions of \LaTeX{}.

class, this works also with older \LaTeX{} kernels.

> 

Author: With an uptodate LaTeX you don't  need the providecommands because the \dollardollar@begin/end are part of the kernel. The last sentence says that using the extra two lines help with backward compatibility.

> 

Reviewer 2: Yes, I see that it just extra explanation.

%
\taggingissue{762}

\subsection{Local changes to the spacing around math displays}

> Due to \TeX{} low-level handling of display math it is very difficult

Reviewer 2: ==> \TeX's low-level . . . math, it is . . .

> to attach tagging code to such display formulas and ensure that it

Reviewer 2: Better:
. . . formulas whilst ensuring that such code always stays . . .

%
\taggingissue{762}

\subsection{Local changes to the spacing around math displays}

Due to \TeX{}'s low-level handling of display math, it is very difficult
to attach tagging code to such display formulas whilst ensuring that such code

> always stays on the same page as the formula, i.e., it has to be

Author: it = such code = tagging code = TeX code for tagging

I do not see why that relationship within a single sentence is a problem

> always stays on the same page as the formula, i.e., it has to be

Reviewer 2: But "it" is earlier used in a totally different way! 

Needs careful treatment.

You have still not explained to me exactly wha it refers to.

> attached before \TeX{} places a \cs{postdisplaypenalty} onto the

Author: attached to the displayed formula ... again we are in asignle sentece ... where is your problem to identify the attachment?

> attached before \TeX{} places a \cs{postdisplaypenalty} onto the

Reviewer 2: So make it clear:

it must be attached at/after? the end of the display

page. There is, however, no way to inject code in the middle of this
\TeX{} process, which is why we have to resort to complex gymnastics:
we set \cs{postdisplaypenalty} locally to 10000 and also make sure
that \cs{belowdisplayskip} when used by \TeX{} is negative. Then we
let \TeX{} do its job and afterwards regain control via
\cs{aftergroup} and insert the tagging code.  Finally, we add the real
\cs{postdisplaypenalty} and a corrected space.

> With our first implementation of this approach it was no longer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With our first implementation of this approach it was not
```

possible for a user to add an explicit \cs{postdisplaypenalty} or a

> one-off \cs{belowdisplayskip} setting into the formula. We have now

Reviewer 2: No, that is not the same as "one-off" so change to "inside" or similar.
